And he decided he was going to get out. But what
happened then was that Robert Kennedy said he was
going to get in. And then those dumbass eastern
liberals, they all said, well, this is just great.
We're going to go with Bobby, and that's going to
take care of this problem. And I said, bullshit,
and came home. Because Jack Kennedy and Bobby
Kennedy are just mainstream. I mean, they just got
a different notion than the right wing of the
Republicans about how to manipulate power to hold
things together. But
Jack Kennedy and others were involved in that war
and in racism and all those things just as heavily
as any right-wing redneck
or financier. Okay. So we came close. At any rate, I
never was going to ask people to vote for me. All I
was going to do was get on TV and say, here's a spot we
wanted to show y'all. That's why I'm running for
governor. I'm not asking you to vote for me, but I
wish you'd watch this spot. And then we were going
to run those things. So that's as far as that went. A
very interesting thing happened right after that
when I came back. I'll just mention, I'm having fun
on talking about this part of it. That was in the
spring, and of course everybody's trying to
figure out what we're going to do next that could
have some effect and put some pressure on. And I
traveled with the guy who was the SDS regional
organizer at that time, and we went to a number of
different campuses around the state.
was the heaviest in political activity as far as
New Left, anti-war, civil rights movement type
stuff. But we went to a number of the other campuses
and spent about two weeks on the road. And what I
found out was that a whole lot of those campuses had
people on them that really wanted to become active
and just would like some help and some ideas about
what to do. They wanted draft counseling
information. They wanted anti-war information,
civil rights, a whole ball of wax. And a whole lot of
them were very isolated. And the campuses were
very narrow and tight, prudish-minded as far as
what the administration and the boards of regents
or the governing boards would like to tolerate.
And of course, a lot of them used to like to come to
Austin because Austin was the most progressive
and had the most open view about what life was about
and how people ought to enjoy it. So what we decided
to do was put together a traveling roadshow that
summer. that would go around to a number of these
areas. And we did. It was a multimedia show. It had a
great name. It was called Mother's Grits, Austin
Anarcho-Terrorist, New Left Beaten Evangelical
Traveling Troop. It was a great bunch of people.
Each place we went, there'd be between 15 and 30 or
35 of them, just men and women. It's what I call a
multimedia project. We used
theater. We had music. We had draft counseling. We
had open
forum.
We had some
speeches. There was a man named Larry Caroline who
was very... very active and a very articulate,
forceful speaker who had a big impact during that
time. He was a professor out here at the University
of Texas in the philosophy department, and he's
the one who made a number of very good
revolutionary statements and got in major
trouble with Frank Irwin and the jackasses who ran
the university and most of the educational
institutions in Texas. But Larry was a very well
educated, very articulate, very popular. And he
came to a number of those events. When we did five of
them, we did one of them at A&M. And it was
delicious. God almighty. See, the people that did
that from Austin, they really believed in what
they were doing. And they really worked hard at
trying to communicate. So we knew when we went into
these areas that there were going to be
confrontation. The tension was there. We knew it
was going to be there. What I did, I helped organize
it. I did what they call the advance work. I'd go
into a community a week or ten days, two weeks ahead
of time to find the area where we could have it. Of
course, none of them, the churches or the schools,
there ain't no buildings available. So we found
that out in a hurry. I am a lawyer, I was a lawyer, and
one place they cannot stop you from having it is a
public park. So we'd go into these places and we'd
find a public park that would be suitable. Of
course, we'd find some local people, usually
there were two or three or four or five, sometimes
more than that, who were willing to work with us and
be identified with it. And then I'd work with the
local media and I'd go to the sheriff and I'd tell
him, you know, this is what's going to happen. You
know, like it were the shit, but fuck you. We're
going to do it anyway. And and I didn't come on that
abrasive to start with, but I didn't take any shit
off any of the guy that I remember the sheriff over
in Commerce, Texas. We went to we went to Commerce,
East Texas State. We went to Denton, North Texas
State. We went to A&M at Bryan College Station. We
went to San Marcos and we went to Dallas. And, of
course, Commerce was the most redneck ignorant
goddamn bunch of office holders that I ran across.
The second day I was there, I went to see the sheriff
and told him what we were going to do. We were going
to be down in that park a week from tonight, and we
were going to have our own portable generator
there, and we were going to have microphones. And I
laid it out. We were all very honest and
straightforward. And I said, you mean a lot to me.
probably don't like our politics and what we
believe in, but so be it. We're going to talk to the
people in this area. We know that a lot of them do
agree with us, and more of them would like
information, and we're going to do it. And I forget
the exact sequence, but at one point he said, he
said, you come over here and do that, and he said,
I'm going to throw you so far back in jail, they'll
have to pipe your civil rights to you. And I said...
You go right ahead, you son of a bitch. I've got a law
firm in Dallas and one in Houston, the ACLU, that's
ready to put Commerce, Texas on the map. And you
better go talk to your bosses and the
commissioner's court and the county judge and see
if that's what they want to happen to Commerce,
Texas. If they do, well, we'll get it on. So, and
they backed off. I mean, that was interesting. But
when we went to A&M,
There were some people there. There was an
economics professor and his wife. Since they
moved to Austin, several years, a number of years
ago, moved to Austin. At any rate,
we set up out there in that field, dedicated
parkland. I mean, they couldn't stop us. And we had
a big crowd, I don't know, 600 to 1,000 people. And
there was a lot of hostility. And
in our theater troupe, about two-thirds women and
a third men. And the women were very talented.
And more than that, they were very adept at
disarming hostility. And so they helped break the
ice and ease the tension as far as at least getting
the show off the ground. And we kind of went through
the through the general routine. And what we found
was that we had one of our best occasions there at
A&M because the Aggies, they had never, ever been
allowed to speak on a microphone. And what we would
do, you know, Caroline, our main speaker, would
give our statement about the war and what ought to
be done and how individuals ought to relate to
that. And then we'd have an open forum and anybody
that wanted to talk could come up and talk with the
general understanding that you say whatever you
want to, cuss, do whatever you're going to do, but
you've got to do it within two or three minutes. And
god damn, they lined up. It's been an hour and a
half, I know, with people who never had a chance on
campus to express themselves. about the war in
Vietnam and about civil rights and all the big
issues of the day and all the big conflicts that
were going on. And it worked out fine because what
you generally find out, if people will be honest,
is that you've got a lot more agreement than you've
got disagreement if you get past certain hurdles.
Nearly everybody will agree they don't like
poverty and they don't like hunger and they don't
like people to die from bad health practices. And
then at least you got the possibility then to talk
about what you're going to do about it. Is this
system here going to do anything about it or do you
have to do something else? But the A&M trip worked
out well. And that Mother's Grits Roadshow went
five different places that summer and addressed
audiences a total of probably a couple of thousand
at the most. One of our larger crowds was at A&M in
Commerce. Had a pretty big crowd at Dallas and Lee
Park, I think it was.
But
a lot of the most active people off of those
campuses then either formed local groups and
began to do things or a lot of them moved to, they
dropped out of school. They moved to Austin, they
moved to San Francisco, they moved to Madison.
They got active, they started doing things. which
is what it was all about. Do you want to get back to
more of this? I'm digressing so much, I don't know
how much we're covering. You been having a good
time? Who's winning today? What organizations
were active in Austin in the 60s, and then what
organizations were you active in? Yeah, okay. The
first thing we should remember is a lot of
organizations overlap. They're used for
different purposes. You find a lot of the same
people in several different organizations. And
you use, not in any manipulative way, because we
were honest with the media, but you use whatever
seems to be the proper structure at the time. There
was the SDS, Students for Democratic Society, at
the University of Texas, and it was also an
off-campus group.
Within SDS, there was a group called the Friends of
Progressive Labor. Popple, F-O-P-L, which is a
Maoist-oriented, pseudo-Maoist, I think,
because I admire Mao, and I think he would disown
this bunch. I mean, they really had their head up
their ass. But they were a Maoist group that had a
national party, which was a disciplined
Marxist-Leninist party. Are you familiar
with... They have a... They believe in secrecy and
they're a whole bunch of... They're contrary to
what I think of as the New Left and what I was a part
of. The Trotskyists, what do they call it? The
Socialist Workers Party of America. There's
three or four socialist parties in the United
States and I never have gotten them all straight. A
lot of different splinter groups. The Communist
Party, I think they had two or three members here in
Austin. Not anything like the media, but I think
there were two or three that were party members.
And as I say, they were very tame. They didn't even
come close. We had one group who were anarchists,
what I call anarchists. A lot of artists and
musicians and dancers and highly talented people
that were influenced by the people in New York
City. And they were called up against the wall,
motherfucker. That was a saying in New York City,
and it spawned groups all across the the country
called up against the wall motherfuckers. And
they did a lot of guerrilla theater, did a lot of
confrontational work. And they were your local
man. To me, they were an organization. According
to some academic theories, they would never be
called an organization, because they wasn't no
leader. They wasn't nothing except they got
together when they felt like it and did something.
The American Friends Service Committee, that's
the Quaker group, has always been heavily
involved in progressive anti-war, civil rights
movement, prisoners, Amnesty International,
which is very prominent still today. Those are
some of the groups. The Farm Workers Union was here
in Austin, and that was a group who made the initial
efforts in the Rio Grande Valley to organize farm
workers.
Originally, they were associated with Chavez,
the guy from California, but there were conflicts
with that California Chavez group about whether
or not the Texas people could strike, and the
California people didn't want them to because
they wanted to focus on where they felt they could
do best. I won't get into all those arguments, but
the Texas people wanted to strike, did. That
caused a split. and the farm workers, so there was
the Texas Farm Workers Union, but they were part of
the local group. The black groups here in Austin,
there's an Urban League, which, and the NAACP,
Southern Christian Leadership Conference,
SCLC, and at one time there was some SNCC, the
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. Now
the Urban League is a very establishment
organization, Uncle Tom, property, conscious,
oriented bunch of upper affluent, a few, there's
not many black folks. The NAACP in Austin, it's not
true nationally, because nationally it's
strictly a middle of the road to the right
organization, very conservative. Always
believes in going to court and seeing if you can't
do something at the ballot box. I mean, they're not
major... They were not major forces in the Civil
Rights Movement. They didn't believe in
confrontation, and they didn't push things.
Martin Luther King's outfit, Southern Christian
Leadership Conference, and SNCC, and CORE, we had
a CORE group, Congress of Racial Equality. They
pushed things. And most people don't realize that
the main impetus in the Black Civil Rights
Movement, just like in the movement...
in the United States overall at that time was the
young people. So it was SNCC who pushed things.
Martin Luther King was the most articulate
speaker, but H.R.F. Brown, Stokely Carmichael, a
number of those folks, along with a lot of the young
people, really pushed things in the black
movement. In fact, no doubt in my mind, they are the
ones who, within the black community, put the
pressure on Martin Luther King, finally made him
take a stand on the Vietnam War. For a long period of
time, he would not do it. He would not come down
against it, figuring he wanted to concentrate on
civil rights. But the black young people said, no,
bullshit. They're killing us. They're dragging
us off to war. And you say we're not going to say
anything about it. You're not going to be a leader
much longer, old man, if you don't start saying the
right thing. And they're the ones who did the
preliminary work for a lot of the King
demonstrations. Most people don't understand
that, too. It's just like the way the labor union
movement was organized in the United States. Most
of that work was done in the 20s and 30s by the
radicals, the wobblies, the communists. It was
not done by AFL-CIO types. I mean, it was done by
people who had major intense convictions about
what was right and what was wrong and were willing
to get hurt and die for it. And a lot of them did. At
any rate, to go down those groups. Now, what else
did we have? What were you active in? Well, the only
one that I continuously identified with was SDS.
And SDS went through a progression. If you've
studied much history, you don't know it. It
finally became sectarian and began to close up.
What I always liked about it, it was very open, very
honest. Spent whatever amount of time was
necessary in meetings or otherwise to let
everybody speak their view and to hash things out.
It did not go on strict parliamentary procedure.
We vote and cut off debate and that kind of shit.
That didn't happen. You might spend five hours but
when you finished, you were either going to have a
consensus or you weren't going to do anything,
which is a way for humans to approach problems. At
any rate, SDS was later, because of sexism and
because of the way men treated women and because of
sectarianism, some of those rigid groups
gained too much control in national SDS. I never
did identify that much with National SDS.
I don't think most of the people in Texas or
Berkeley or Madison, the major areas, did either.
I mean, SDS was a lot of anarchist tendencies
there. I mean, control close to where you live and
what you want to do and what you're willing to do.
Don't write a paper off 500 miles from here and tell
me I'm supposed to go do this when you don't know
what I'm doing. So SDS, of course, earlier, back
when I was a liberal, still believed that
electoral politics might offer. I was a member of
the Texas Democratic Coalition. I quit. The last
time I voted was when Lyndon became president. I
quit voting. I knew that was too much shit. It
wouldn't do any good. Would you have classified
yourself as a liberal in the early 60s or later as a
radical? No. In 1960, I first worked for the man who
ran for governor, and then I worked for the guy who
was the United States senator, and then I was with
that state liberal organization. So I was a
Democrat, liberal Democrat in 1960 until right
after Jack Kennedy got killed. And of course, I was
learning all the time, particularly from the
black people, that the system wasn't working and
wasn't going to work as far as the basic stuff that
bothered me, racism and poverty and later on the
war. It just wasn't going to change unless you made
change.
So in 1964, when Lennon cut off the money and that
organization fell apart, I became heavily
involved in the Civil Rights Movement. And during
that time, I was fortunate. I got to meet Martin
Luther King. They paid my way to come over to at
their national convention at the Southern
Leadership Conference to give a speech about how
we did the block worker program in Texas. And I got
to meet him and a bunch of the people who were
national figures. Of course, that was a
top-heavy, preacher-oriented, middle-class
organization as far as the people that were
well-known. The ones who did the dangerous,
heavy-duty work were younger, and you wouldn't
know their names.
And so I guess during that, and then I guess about a
two-year period there, I would have considered
myself a radical. I was a liberal Democrat, and
then I was a radical. And then as I became more
aware, and it was around the SDS New Left people, a
lot of them were very well-read and educated, and
not with degrees. And I don't mean that, but I mean,
they'd done a lot of intensive work. I learned a lot
more. And out of all those discussions, I became
what I think of, what I still am today, which is
revolutionary. I believe it takes basic change.
And unfortunately, I believe in our society,
American United States society, that that's not
going to be accomplished by electoral change.
Big interests are not going to permit you to take
away all their property because you vote. And that
bullshit, anybody that's naive and thinks that,
they'll shoot you first. So from about 1967, 68 on,
I considered myself a revolutionary. And that's
by my own definition. I don't belong to any, never
have belonged to any organized, structured,
disciplined group. In fact, it's contrary to my
politics. I'm kind of an anarchist. libertarian
revolutionary, that's the way I describe myself.
So would you like to define the term radical or the
term revolutionary? Do I like the term? What term
would you like to define or both? Oh.
Because you don't really count yourself as a
radical. Well, I think a revolutionary is a
radical, but a radical is not necessarily a
revolutionary. Are you familiar with Saul
Alinsky? He's a man who organized a bunch of
projects that have continued to exist, starting
up in Chicago and Rochester, New York. And there's
a bunch of them outgrowth here Texas, you familiar
with Acorn? Now that's an Alinsky type
organization, Saul Alinsky. A lot of the people
that run that outfit got their training and their
principles from this Saul Alinsky. Now they're
radicals. They don't
think necessarily that a revolution, a major
confrontation is necessary to attain what they
want to attain. They go in more for holding
meetings and deciding what needs to be done in a
small, defined area such as a neighborhood or a
city. We need this kind of electricity. We need
this kind of roadway. They don't work as much on
what I think of as interrelationships. If you
really understand power, you know you're not
going to get as limited on what they're going to
give you. but they believe that it's worthwhile
and those things can be obtained, and that's what
they want to do. I personally think Solomonsky is
highly manipulative. I think that he knows that
the frustrations that occur in people after you
spend three or four or five years of doing that type
of organizing and work, and all you do is get bits
and pieces and they throw you a bone occasionally,
but you never see the major changes. What happens
is people become more radical. They either do that
or drop out. Well, I think what he is is an old
leftist. I think he's probably 50 years ago some
secretary and maybe had been a Communist Party
member. I don't know if he was or not, but they're
highly manipulative people. I don't know if
you're familiar with them or not, but don't ever
trust anybody who's a party member of them. of the
sectarian mass group. They tell you what they
think they need to tell you. They're like liberal
democratic politicians. They do what's
necessary to get you to do what they want you to do.
They
did a lot of anti-war work, and they had a group
called Fuck the Army, FTA. And they'd go around to
different spots to help get information out. Of
course, Jane found a major drawing card, Tom
Hayden, to a lesser extent. He was one of the
national founders and writers of the Port Huron
Statement, which is the early basic document of
SDS. which is a pretty good liberal democratic
type analysis of society at that time. At any rate,
we had them come here to Austin. And up here at Fort
Hood, which is a major military installation,
they trained army troops and others. We had a
coffee house, military organizing coffee house,
called the Oleo Strut, which is named after a part
of a helicopter. train helicopter units out
there. And we had Fonda and Hayden work out there
and go out there and, of course, attracted large,
lots of people, lots of GIs who were anti-war, who
most of them stoned out. I mean, God, the dilemma
those men were in was a lot of them, they're going
through training, they know where they're going,
and they don't like it. They're afraid they're
going to get killed. They're afraid they're going
to do something they don't want to do. You know,
what the hell am I going to do? At any rate, they both
spoke out there. We had them here in Austin. We
finally found a place to... We had one on-campus
event. No, we didn't. We couldn't find an
on-campus site. We finally used the back room of
Schultz's Beer Garden, which is a very famous
Austin tavern. And they made that back room
available to us. I helped organize it. I went and
talked to the owner. And the owner was a guy named
Larry Bales, who was in the Texas House of
Representatives at that time. A lot of guts. I
guess he was the most so-called liberal Democrat
in the Texas House of Representatives in that
year. The Texas legislature, I think, passed a
resolution in both houses, something like 500 to
1. that Jane Fonda was an asshole and a communist
and bad news and don't come and all that. But Larry
went ahead and let us use the place. We had a
standing room on the pack crowd. And then we also
went on campus. But we never could use a major
facility. I don't know whether this happened at
A&M. I imagine it. I'm damn sure it has happened,
but here at the University of Texas, they've
really tightened up since the 60s and early 70s
about campus regulations, what they will permit
and will not permit, according to their legal
theory, most of which is unconstitutional, but
then you've got to go through the bullshit of
taking it to court. It takes a long time to bring
those court fights. About where you can meet,
where you can talk, Supposedly you have free
speech and free assembly, but you don't.
And since the 60s and early 70s, they put in major
changes in the regulations to try to tighten that
up. The walls you see out here at the university
campus around the stone walls around, those were
put up because of the demonstrations. It makes it
much easier from their point of view for crowd
control to have a three- or four- or five-foot wall
that somebody has to come over before they can have
one coffin handle a much larger area than if it's
all flat. So a lot of our landscaping was done for
crowd control purposes, to try to shut off the
university, which is, of course, contrary to the
basic notion of what a university is about. It
ought to be an integral part of the community not
walls around it. Okay, I don't want to digress any
longer, but there was a very effective GI
organizing effort going on here and at Fort Hood,
and then the Fort Hood people would come to Austin
and join in with what we were doing, and we'd go help
them. And we had law firms here in Austin, one big
law firm called a movement law firm that would do
all that heavy-duty political work because the
people really believed in it, the lawyers did. and
do it on a free basis, on a mandatory free basis,
because we'd all get involved in trying to raise
the money and get the evidence together and do all
the shit work and leg work that it required to do
whatever it was legally we were trying to do. And a
lot of the CO, conscientiously subjected cases, a
lot of the military cases where they were trying to
kick people out of the military without due
process and without certain benefits. A lot of the
lawyers here helped out on it. Okay, what have we
got? What's next? Okay. What were the major
incidents, quote unquote, in Austin? Just a few
major ones. Yeah, just a few because I made a
collage one time when I was drinking a lot and had
about a week and I had a board about the size of this
window and And I made up cards and used clippings
and pictures and a bunch of shit that I had. I had 60
or 70 different items on that board of things I was
involved in. Maybe a third or a fourth of them are
what you would probably call major. The big one as
far as
longer term conflict with the university was the
Chuck Wagner case. And I was heavily involved in
that one.
We effectively won that over a period of time. I
mean, nobody once read it. And we did exert
considerable pressure on the university. And we
were effective in using the case itself as an
organizing device to reach more people about the
issues that were involved. A lot of good lawyers
around the state
helped out, volunteered to work on that case. And
it had the district attorneys and the district
judges who were sitting in their britches,
because they were very heavy duty lawyers. And we
were on the side of the angels as far as the
constitutional legalities go. There were some
factual problems, but not major ones. Mario
Maverick, Jr., out of San Antonio, which is a very
prominent name, was involved. Warren Burnett,
who's probably the best trial lawyer and one of the
best in the United States out of Odessa, was
involved. Cameron Cunningham, Jim Simons, and
Brady Coleman from here in Austin. Sam Houston
Clinton, who's now one of the judges on the Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals, the top criminal
court. He was one of the defense lawyers, one of our
lawyers. Dave Richards out of Dallas. the biggest
labor law firm in Dallas. Bob Hall out of Houston,
the biggest labor law firm in Houston. And of
course, that means they're among the biggest in
the country, because those are the laborers, and
they're very good lawyers.
The Chuckwagon case, of course, that involved
whether the university could really crack down on
shutting off that the university facilities to
what they think of as outsiders people who will not
enroll dues paying students and of course now some
people might buy that definition but we didn't and
i don't a university is an open institution as far
as i'm concerned particularly when society's
money pays for it don't tell me that I've got to pay
tuition to be able to go talk to a student or a
teacher over there or read a book. Fuck you. At any
rate, that was a major one. We did another major
event. It wasn't a demonstration. Is that what you
want, demonstrations? We held a legal conference
at Wembley, which this is all well documented in
the Texas Observer.
And I helped organize that, where we had a bunch of
trial lawyers and plaintiff's lawyers and
liberal lawyers from around the state who came and
spent several days at a guest ranch that we rented
up at Wimberley. We brought in speakers. Bill
Cussler, you know William Cussler, who's
defended the Chicago 7. He's one of the lawyers who
defended the Chicago 7. Charles Gary, who
defended Angela Davis, the Black Panther woman,
he was there from San Francisco. We had a number of
outside speakers, and then we had a lot of
workshops and discussions between movement
activists and lawyers about what was going on and
what was needed. Traditionally, the legal
profession does not want to give up control of a
legal case. In other words, if a lawyer's hired to
pursue a certain case, he wants all the control
about what's going to be said and done and not done
in the courtroom. Well, that is basically
contrary to movement politics. Movement
politics says, me, I'm the defendant, or me, I'm
the one who they're after. I've got to say so, and
you're the lawyer, and I want you to do what I tell
you to do. Don't tell me I can't talk, or don't tell
me I have to dress this way or that, but help me. But
don't try to say you're going to make the final
decision because you're not i mean if you're not
going to help me then i'll get somebody else and
that was a problem that we were trying to overcome
we were having problems getting enough lawyers
that would do the legal work on a reasonable basis
but we had a good legal conference i think it had a
big impact and it is documented in the observer
other big events of course For a street
demonstration, I guess it was the early 70s. I
can't ever remember dates. All I remember is kind
of the flow of events. You know, Nixon got in, Nixon
got re-elected, and they're always lying to you. I
mean, they're going to negotiate, and they're
going to get out, and this is a step, and then you
find out they've invaded Cambodia, and they're
bombing this, and they're doing all this shit they
don't want to tell you about. And we had a major
demonstration night with 20, 25,000 people in the
streets of Austin, which is, that's lots of people
for the size of this city at that time.
The number of demonstrations out at the
university would have 10 to 15,000 people there.
That makes the establishment figures very
nervous. Whenever that many people who are upset,
some of whom are very angry, some of whom are
unstable. And a lot of them very intense and
committed. Most of them are not unstable. I don't
know if you ever get that notion, but that's not
true. But some are, and you'll get crazy things
happen. You have demonstrations where, at that
point in time, I don't know, they may have changed
the law on this now, where it's not illegal for me to
carry a torch and put rags on the end of a stick, put
gasoline, light it, and walk down the street at
night. Well, you think about it, if you're the
chancellor of the university and you're going to
have 500 people out there and you're going to have a
torchlight parade around your house in the middle
of the night, that makes you nervous. You might get
your house burned down. And if you concentrate on
the economic institutions, all of this was
happening around the country. I mean, the
intensity level was going up. The property was
starting to get destroyed. The pressure was going
on. Bombs were going off. Buildings were being
burned up. capitalism had to make some
adjustments. Plus the military wasn't wanting to
fight. I'm not talking about the fucking
officers, fuck them. They just do what they're
told generally, but the men didn't want to fight.
So they knew they had to, they lost their war. They
had to get out. What else did we have? Major event in
Austin, the first and probably the second farm
workers march. coming
from the valley, I forget how long it took, but
probably a month or six weeks where the group of
farm workers started marching up here, and it
culminated in a big march down Congress Avenue. It
started out of St. Edwards, which is about five,
six, seven miles out in South Austin, and it came up
to the state capitol. And there must have been
15,000 or 20,000 people, and that was about a
minimum wage. Farm workers were not covered by it.
by minimum wage, and they were getting screwed
bad, still are for that matter. That was a major
event. We had at one point an event I thought worked
well because one of the tensions always was
whether you focus on a single issue or whether you
take on several issues. And of course, if you're
revolutionary or radical, you understand the
connections between events. There is a
connection between poverty, the war, and racism.
There's certain interests that look at those
things in a certain way and want them, you know,
things to happen a certain way. So we did it at one
point, most of the time whenever a big anti-war
thing would come along, it'd be pretty much a
single focus. And a lot of years of the anti-war
thing, of course this is when all across the
country the same process is going on. More and more
people are seeing the relationship between these
different issues. Then they would also mention
racism and poverty and Chicano sexism. All of this
would come up and what kind of banners are you going
to have? What kind of signs are you going to have?
Who are the speakers going to be? How long are you
going to let them speak? Who's going to speak
first? Who's going to speak last? If you know the
dynamics of meetings, you know there are certain
benefits. There are certain benefits to be first,
last, or in the middle. And we finally had a... A
demonstration here, I don't know how many, 3, 4,
5,000 people, called We the People, where it was
multifaceted. I mean, it hit about 8 or 10 issues. A
lot of the local neighborhood groups who never had
any organized way of participating got into that
because it was a mass public protest about we don't
like the way things are. and we the people are going
to say something about it, and I don't know whether
you're going to do anything about it, but we're
going to say we don't like it. And that worked out
pretty well, and it helped get us away from the
single focus. The Trotskyists always wanted to
just talk about the war. Don't talk about this,
don't talk about that, just talk about the war.
And, of course, most of the new left people and the
American friends didn't want to do that. They
wanted to talk about more than just the war. What
else? We had... major civil rights.
They weren't major in terms of number. They were
major in terms of they were what was going on in
Texas that had an impact when we had
demonstrations at the local theaters to force
them to let black people get in. We had the same way
with bars, public accommodations, where we had
major demonstrations with some physical
conflicts because some of the university area
places did not want blacks to come in. We had a man
who sat down in the governor's office to see the
governor. The governor wouldn't see him and he
stayed. Had a major confrontation with the
governor. And out of Austin, a good friend of mine,
man I worked with, in fact I lived with him and his
wife and kids for a year. B.T. Bonner, who was a
black man organizer with the Southern Christian
Leadership Conference, Martin Luther King's
outfit, helped organize some major civil rights
demonstrations in Huntsville, Texas, which a
number of us from Austin went over to support. And
those were very intense and very dangerous, but
very effective.
That's some of them. This is going to... In your
opinion, is the art of practicing law immoral?
Why? And why not be a people's lawyer like Ralph
Nader or work for the ACLU? The first part of it was
what? Is the art of practicing law immoral? And
what was the next phrase? Oh, and why? No, I don't
think it's immoral. Of course, I have some
problems with the whole notion of morality. I
mean... We're not careful. We get off into
religious philosophies and all that. I don't
believe in that shit either. I believe we have to
decide what's right and wrong and basically good
for people. So in that sense, I consider myself a
very moral person. I think that practicing law,
you can be a moral person. I don't think that
lawyers who have good convictions and good
principles find it very difficult. If you look at
what the body of the laws are, In our society,
they're to protect property rights and business
relationships primarily. The people who go to
prison, contrary to what most people think, are
not murderers and rapists. I don't know what the
figures are. Seventy-five to ninety percent of
them are crimes against property. Somebody that
stole something or tried to steal something or a
burglar or that kind of thing. And I don't believe
that. I don't believe that's a crime. Now, a crime
to me is that Rockefeller, that son of a bitch is a
fucking criminal. He's got more money than he
could possibly use, and he doesn't do people any
good. People starve to death, and he's sitting on
top of a whole lot of money. Fuck him. And that's a
crime. Lawyers have to deal with that all the time.
I mean, they're defending...
They have to... appear before judges and play a
certain game, or they get thrown into jail
themselves or get thrown out of court. You tell a
judge, I think you're a liar, I know how you got to be
a judge, I don't think you can possibly give a fair
decision in this or any other case, which is, if you
know how judges are selected, as I do, it's true in
nine times of the cases, they gave money or they did
this favor or that favor, and that's how they got to
be judges.
So lawyers have to deal with that all the time. You
have to deal with district attorneys who are
mostly sleazy, young, ambitious people who've
been fed a bunch of goodies about how they can make a
name for themselves prosecuting these heinous
criminals. They're never smart enough to realize
that Rockefeller's a criminal, not the fellow
who's trying to steal for his family.
And in my own case, you know i thought there were
more important things for me to be doing i went back
and doing the chuck wagon case we had a number of
lawyers who were doing the courtroom work and the
formal legal stuff but i was effectively working
as a lawyer i was gathering evidence i was doing the
legwork the footwork getting all the pictures and
statements and talking to the tv people and all But
I thought there were more important things for me
to do, generally speaking, than to practice law.
I have a number of friends practicing law that I
think are doing a pretty good job of helping to
change things for the better and helping people
who can't afford it.
ACLU, my niece, by the way, is the woman, the person
who started. She was the Texas Civil Liberties
Union. She was the first.